Add lesson 2 (#2)
ReDI-School/js-berlin-2023-spring: lesson02.md

<!-- .slide: id="lesson2" -->

# Basic Frontend - Spring 2023

Lesson 2, Tuesday, 2023-03-21

---

### Recap

Can you tell me, what did we talk about last lesson?

---

### Recap: Javascript Console

`F12` is the magic word

---

### Recap: data types

Number:
```js
42
-3.1415
```

We can also do some computations
<!-- .element: class="fragment" -->

```js
1 + 1

10 / 5

5 ** 3
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment" -->

---

### Recap: data types

String:
```js
"John"
'Berlin'
```

---

### String operators

The addition operator (`+`) can be used to add (concatenate) two strings:

```js
"a" + "b"    // results: "ab"
```

---

### String operators

The addition operator can be used on Strings and Numbers:

```js
1 + 1                // is 2
"hello" + " world"   // is "hello world"
```

---

### Importance of data types

```js
1 + 1        // is 2
"1" + "1"    // is "11"
```

> Make sure to always choose the correct data type for your data,
> since the operators in JavaScript behave differently depending on the data type.

Reviewer: ChatGPT suggests:

```suggestion
It is important to select the appropriate data type for your data, as the behavior of operators in JavaScript varies depending on the data type used.
```

---

### Quick exercise

use the `+` operator to combine multiple strings to match the following sentence:

Hello, my name is + (name) + and I am from + (country)

---

### String operators

> We cannot use other operators (like `-`, `/`, `*`) on strings, we can only use `+`.

Reviewer: We can, the output is just silly ;) "We should avoid"? "We shouldn't"?

3 === "Hello"  // false
3 === "3"      // false

"Harald" === "Harald" // true
"Harald" === "Sevtap" // false
"Abdo" === "abdo"     // false
```

---

### Comparison operators

* `!==` strict inequality

```js
3 !== 5           // true
3 !== 3           // false
1 !== "Cookies"   // true
```

---

### Comparison operators

We can use `===` and `!==` to test for the equality and inequality of any 2 values in javascript.

---

### Quick exercise

Use the equality comparison operators to generate boolean values for these questions:

* is your favorite food Pizza?
* are you 25 years old?
* is "Friends" your favorite tv series?
* is 40 your shoe size?

As an example for the first item on this list, my favorite food is Döner:

```js
"Pizza" === "Döner"  // false
```

---

### Comparison operators

There are a couple of operators that we can use for numbers only

* `>` greater than
* `<` less than
* `>=` greater or equal
* `<=` less or equal

---

```js
1 > 0 // true
1 > 5 // false
```

```js
10 < 20 // true
10 < 5 // false

```
<!-- .element: class="fragment" -->

```js
42 >= 40 // true
42 >= 42 // true
42 >= 50 // false
```
<!-- .element: class="fragment" -->

---

> 

Reviewer: Something missing? :)
